[This announcement is an updated version of the email we sent to all
active users on 8th November 2019.]{.wysiwyg-font-size-small}

[\-\--]{.wysiwyg-font-size-small}

[From **26 November 2019** we will take next steps to
implement [data]{.il} [expiry]{.il} and automated deletion to optimise
the availability of the highest performance storage on our HPC platform
\-- **/[nesi]{.il}/nobackup/** storage, a.k.a the "nobackup"
filesystem.]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}

[**What does this mean?**]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}\
[Project directories in **/[nesi]{.il}/nobackup/** (e.g.
/[nesi]{.il}/nobackup/nesi12345/) are intended
for *active* [data]{.il} that needs to be accessed and stored by your
HPC compute and analytics jobs or associated interactive processing. All
NeSI projects also have a persistent project directory
in **/nesi/project/** which is available for the life of the project on
NeSI.]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}

[Later this month, we will begin rolling out a
new [data]{.il} [expiry]{.il} feature to
remove *inactive* research [data]{.il} from **/[nesi]{.il}/nobackup/** - [data]{.il} which
hasn't been accessed or modified within the last 120 days, stored in a
nobackup project directory that takes up at least 1 TB of disk
space.]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}\
[[NeSI]{.il} Support has information and instructions here: [Automatic
cleaning of nobackup file
system](https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/articles/360001162856)]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}

[**How does this affect me?**]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}\
[Starting on 26 November, we will begin to roll
out [data]{.il} [expiry]{.il} and automated deletion. This process
carries through to late January 2020.]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}\
\
[We will successively identify and work with a subset of project teams
to implement [data]{.il} [expiry]{.il} and automated deletion on all
associated **/[nesi]{.il}/nobackup/\<project
code\>/** directories.]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}\
\
[We will contact each project team directly when this is being
implemented on their project directories, and any files about
to [expire]{.il} will be notified 2 weeks prior to actual deletions
taking place. More information is available
on [NeSI]{.il} Support: [Automatic cleaning of nobackup file
system](https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/articles/360001162856)]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}

[Look out for further updates as this rollout
progresses.]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}\
\
[If you have any questions, please [contact our support
team](https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/requests/new).]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}\
\
[Kind regards,]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}\
[The [NeSI]{.il} Team]{.wysiwyg-font-size-medium}
