<span style="font-weight: 400;">NeSI has created a new endpoint to
improve data transfer capabilities to and from NeSI's HPC platform. The
new endpoint is called </span>**NeSI Wellington DTN V5** <span
style="font-weight: 400;">and we encourage you to begin using it
immediately. </span>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">The old NeSI endpoint, </span>*<span
style="font-weight: 400;">NeSI Wellington DTN</span>*<span
style="font-weight: 400;">, will be deactivated on 8 December 2021.  
  
</span><span style="font-weight: 400;"></span>

**What this change means for you:**

-   <span style="font-weight: 400;">If you've ever created a bookmark or
    shared a collection to the NeSI endpoint, you will need to re-create
    and/or re-share using the new endpoint name - </span>**NeSI
    Wellington DTN V5**<span style="font-weight: 400;">.</span>[<span
    style="font-weight: 400;">Instructions are available
    here</span>](https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/articles/4409759247887-Re-creating-Shared-Collections-and-Bookmarks-in-Globus-V5)<span
    style="font-weight: 400;">.</span>

**Endpoint functionality improvements:**

Some of the improvements you'll notice as a result of the endpoint
upgrade include:

-   <span style="font-weight: 400;">HTTPS (web) access for easier data
    downloading and uploading directly from browsers</span>
-   <span style="font-weight: 400;">'</span>*<span
    style="font-weight: 400;">Shared Collections</span>*<span
    style="font-weight: 400;">' are now called '</span>*<span
    style="font-weight: 400;">Guest Collections</span>*<span
    style="font-weight: 400;">'</span>

**User Q&A session:**

<span style="font-weight: 400;">We hosted a short information session on
24 November to share more details and a demo of the new endpoint
features. The recording is embedded below:</span>

<iframe title="YouTube video player" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0qsfI6qEXBw" width="560" height="315" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<span style="font-weight: 400;">If you would like more information about
the endpoint upgrade, you can</span>[refer to these documentation pages
<span style="font-weight: 400;">in NeSI
Support</span>](https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/sections/360000040596-Data-Transfer-Services)<span
style="font-weight: 400;"> or send questions to
<support@nesi.org.nz>.Â </span><span style="font-weight: 400;"></span>

  
**Learn more about using Globus to transfer research data:**

Do you have large datasets that need to be shared between collaborators
or transferred from an instrument to NeSI's computational environment?

NeSI's national Data Transfer Platform is delivered in partnership with
Globus and REANNZ to provide fast, secure, and reliable data transfer.
To learn more, the introductory videos below share an overview of the
Data Transfer Platform and its capabilities:

-   [Introduction to NeSI's Data Transfer
    Platform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rUPoJUUkmGw)
-   [Sharing data with groups using
    Globus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SmkWHjFDfQY)

If you have questions about getting started, [email
Support](mailto:support@nesi.org.nz).
