We're excited to announce an addition of new GPU capabilities to our
platform and some noteworthy changes to resource pricing as a result.

 

**New Graphics Processing Units (GPUs)**

We've installed eight NVIDIA A100 GPU cards into the [Mahuika HPC
system](https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/articles/360000163575-Mahuika),
providing a significant boost in computing performance and an
environment particularly suited to machine learning workloads. Over the
last few months we've worked directly with a group of beta tester
researchers to ensure this new capability is fit-for-purpose and tuned
to communities\' specific software and tool requirements. 

[These new A100s, alongside ]{.fabric-editor-annotation
mark-type="annotation" mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="11fb2a95-f615-44ef-94d4-233f43bf06ea"}[[software optimised for
data science]{.fabric-editor-annotation mark-type="annotation"
mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="11fb2a95-f615-44ef-94d4-233f43bf06ea"}](https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/articles/360004558895-What-software-environments-on-NeSI-are-optimised-for-Machine-Learning-approaches-)[,
are available to researchers using ]{.fabric-editor-annotation
mark-type="annotation" mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="11fb2a95-f615-44ef-94d4-233f43bf06ea"}**[machine
learning]{.fabric-editor-annotation mark-type="annotation"
mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="11fb2a95-f615-44ef-94d4-233f43bf06ea"}**[ approaches. If this
is you, ]{.fabric-editor-annotation mark-type="annotation"
mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="11fb2a95-f615-44ef-94d4-233f43bf06ea"}[[contact NeSI
Support]{.fabric-editor-annotation mark-type="annotation"
mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="11fb2a95-f615-44ef-94d4-233f43bf06ea"}](mailto:https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/requests/new)[
to discuss how these new resources could support your
work.]{.fabric-editor-annotation mark-type="annotation"
mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="11fb2a95-f615-44ef-94d4-233f43bf06ea"}

 

**Reduced pricing for P100s**

We've recently reviewed our
[pricing](https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/articles/360001385735-What-is-an-allocation-)
and reduced the price of our existing
[P100](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/data-center/tesla-p100/) GPUs to 7.0
compute units per device-hour. The P100 GPUs are available to any
project with a Mahuika allocation so if you have an existing allocation
on Mahuika, you can access the P100s right away.

If you need a larger or new allocation on Mahuika, you can [apply for
access](https://www.nesi.org.nz/services/applyforaccess) now, but
requests will likely be considered as part of our next allocation call
window: [[31 August - 01 October]{.fabric-editor-annotation
mark-type="annotation" mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="002aaecf-7fd3-4a49-846d-50a7a88096a6"}](https://www.nesi.org.nz/services/high-performance-computing-and-analytics/guidelines/allocations-allocation-classes-review#window).

[For more technical information]{.fabric-editor-annotation
mark-type="annotation" mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="27b58294-6e03-46a6-921a-0652d7a5b841"} about using GPUs on
NeSI, [click
here](https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/articles/360001471955). If
you have questions about allocations or how to access the P100s,
[contact NeSI
Support](mailto:https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/requests/new).

 

**Sharing our learning along the way**

If you're curious about what it takes to get the best of the A100 cards,
you can learn about our experiences in the first post of a new 'Tech
Insights\' blog series: [Tech Insights: A behind-the-scenes look at
rolling out new GPU resources for NZ
researchers](https://www.nesi.org.nz/case-studies/tech-insights-behind-scenes-look-rolling-out-new-gpu-resources-nz-researchers).

Our inaugural post discusses our first tasks with the A100s: thermal and
internal software tests. In future posts, we'll explore user tests we
conducted in the spaces of deep learning and molecular dynamics codes,
as well as take a closer look at which codes are suitable to run on GPUs
and whether your research project is a fit.

 

**Future GPU investments**

Looking ahead, we're currently finalising another investment into
additional GPU cards later this year. We're also exploring the A100s\'
Multi-Instance GPU (MIG) features, which partition the cards into
several independent instances, giving multiple users access to GPU
acceleration at the same time.

These activities will enable us to expand GPU access to an even broader
community of users, as well as support more advanced and demanding
performance needs across domains. [If you're interested in using these
A100s for something other than machine learning, let us know by
]{.fabric-editor-annotation mark-type="annotation"
mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="d92de427-dd8f-4965-a484-8faf3deebc67"}[[contacting NeSI
Support]{.fabric-editor-annotation mark-type="annotation"
mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="d92de427-dd8f-4965-a484-8faf3deebc67"}](mailto:https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/requests/new)[
- that way we can keep you up to date on our plans.
]{.fabric-editor-annotation mark-type="annotation"
mark-annotation-type="inlineComment"
data-id="d92de427-dd8f-4965-a484-8faf3deebc67"}

 

If you have questions or comments on anything mentioned above,
please [get in
touch](https://support.nesi.org.nz/hc/en-gb/requests/new).

 

Thank you,

NeSI Support
